I have learned that Jehovah can support me under any circumstances.
I was born and raised in Caraganda, Kazakhstan.
When I was 25, I lost my job.
A special pioneer brother from my congregation asked me,
why don't you use this opportunity to start pioneering?
But I wasn't sure if someone like me could pioneer.
Because he said, don't worry, I'll support you and help you.
I decided to give it a try.
And that brother kept his word, to work with me and help me in my service.
Sometime later, I was encouraged to apply for MTS by our circuit overseer
who had graduated from the first class in Russia.
Even though I thought it was beyond my ability, I listened to him
and was able to attend the fourth class.
Before graduation, a brother on the branch can be asked me
if I would be willing to serve in Mongolia as a special pioneer.
Immediately, I said, yes, because I was ready to serve anywhere.
But when I realized how much responsibility comes
with serving in a foreign assignment, I started to wonder if I could serve
from Mongolia with my limited experience.
After graduating in February 1999, I arrived in Ulamatar, Mongolia.
It was about minus 30 degrees Celsius.
There was no snow, just a dust storm.
I'd never seen anything like it before.
At that time, 17 publishers were serving in Mongolia.
When preaching, I would recite the introduction
and then a local publisher would continue the conversation.
Back then, everyone invited us in, offered us tea and candy
and listened to us.
But I was upset, because I couldn't understand everything.
Often, I had to work alone in the monastery,
without knowing the language.
I was obligated to Jehovah for courage
and often reflected that right at that moment,
it was like there was no one else preaching
in all of Mongolia but me,
and that the angels were watching over me.
This thing can give me the strength to continue preaching.
In 2001, I married a wonderful sister, Norea.
Jehovah truly blesses our efforts
when we give him our best and praise intensely.
He has helped me many times and has patiently trained me.
And because of that, I've been able to serve here for 17 years.
I'm very grateful that we have been able to help 20 people come to know Jehovah.
Knowing that people like me, with little experience,
can be used by Jehovah and his organization,
helps me appreciate Jehovah's mercy and patience.
I thank Jehovah from the bottom of my heart.